So our text for today is
Philippians 3:14,
and here the apostle Paul
assures the Philippian congregation
that he has not lost sight of the goal.
In spite of all the distressing things
that he’s dealing with,
he’s keeping his mind on the big picture
—the advancement of the good news
and the hope that he has for the future.
Well, how can this help us?
Well, let’s consider three things
that Paul was dealing with during the time
that he was writing
his letter to the Philippians
that could have diverted his focus
and see what we can learn.
The first thing
we’ll consider is discouragement.
Well, why?
Well, Paul, as we know,
was under house arrest at the time.
He could not do
what he wanted to do for Jehovah.
It’s thought that when Paul
wrote his letter to the Philippians,
he had been under house arrest
for a year or more.
How discouraging
this could have been for Paul!
Also, we remember that during this time
the Philippian congregation
had sent Epaphroditus to Paul
with a gift from the congregation.
Well, what happened?
Epaphroditus was to go and encourage Paul,
but he ended up getting sick
to the point of death and then got depressed.
So now, rather than receiving help,
Paul had to worry about and help
Epaphroditus to recover
and then deal with his depression
and then eventually send him back home,
all the while dealing with his own situation.
And finally, who knows
the emotional ups and downs
that Paul dealt with during his imprisonment?
We can imagine him getting reports of:
‘I think your case
is going to get heard soon.
Maybe you can leave soon.’
And then: ‘No, sorry.
‘Nothing is happening.
You’re going to be here for a while.’
Well, can you relate to Paul?
Many of our brothers and sisters are getting
emotionally and physically
distressed or fatigued
because of this pandemic.
Some of them feel like they
are in house arrest.
There seems to be no end in sight.
Sometimes it’s like we
take one step forward and two steps back.
We cannot do the things
that we want to do for Jehovah.
Well, what do we learn from Paul?
What did he do?
Let’s look at Philippians 1:12.
Where was his focus?
Philippians 1:12—he says:
“Now I want you to know, brothers,
“that my situation has actually
turned out for the advancement
of the good news.”
He focused on advancing
the good news—the big picture.
In verse 13, he talks about how his situation
was giving a witness to the prison guards,
how his endurance, in verse 14,
was encouraging the congregation.
He was not in the situation
he wanted to be in,
but he focused on the positive.
See, we need to do the same
—keep our focus on the big picture.
The increases that we
hear about and the incredible experiences
that we’re hearing show that Jehovah’s people
are continuing to advance Kingdom interests
even during these difficult times.
Now, we have heard so many
encouraging reports that remind us
that Jehovah has been with his people
and with his organization
during this last period of time
—during this pandemic—
so that his organization not only continued
functioning but flourishing.
Should we lose trust now
that Jehovah will not carry us
the rest of the way?
This is a good reminder from Paul.
What else was Paul dealing with?
Well, our second point
is that he was dealing with pain of heart
because of those who had left the truth.
Look at chapter 3 and verse 18
—Philippians 3:18.
He says: “For there are many
“—I used to mention them often
but now I mention them also with weeping—
who are walking as enemies
of the torture stake of the Christ.”
Yes, some who used to be close to Paul
had abandoned the truth.
This distressed him.
It made him weep.
Well, can we relate?
Well, yes.
Some among us have
very close family members or friends
who have left the truth and are
now disfellowshipped, and that’s painful.
Now, when emotions are running high,
it can cause us to question
decisions made by the elders
or maybe to struggle with the direction
on how to deal with disfellowshipped ones.
It tests our faith.
You see, when somebody is heading
into a wayward way, or course,
we all do what we can to help
—the friends, family, the elders, everybody.
But when someone has reached the point
when he has to be disfellowshipped,
Jehovah now, in effect, says:
‘I have this now.
Leave this to me.’
And what do we have to do?
We have to back off
and trust Jehovah and his organization.
Now, we can illustrate it this way:
You could picture (maybe) having
a nice family meal with your family.
And during the evening,
suddenly your uncle
grabs his chest
and falls over on the floor unconscious.
Well, what happens?
Well, we all jump into action.
Somebody starts doing CPR;
somebody calls the paramedics;
the rest of us try to do what we can.
But what do we do when the paramedics arrive?
We step out of the way,
and we leave our loved one
in the hands of those
who’ve been trained
to handle medical emergencies.
Now, would we ever think
of pulling the paramedics off of our uncle
and insisting that no,
we’re going to care for him ourself?
No.
We know that by doing that, we will
greatly reduce the chances of him surviving.
See, we leave it to the paramedics,
and we hope for the best.
Now, sometimes the patient recovers.
Sadly, sometimes
the patient does not recover.
But, yet, we know that he has
a much better chance of recovering
at the hands of the trained paramedics.
And see, the same is true
with our loved ones who leave Jehovah.
At first, we try to do what we can,
but then we step back and leave it
to the paramedics, if you will
—the spiritually qualified men
who are trained to offer
necessary spiritual assistance.
That’s Jehovah’s arrangement.
But it doesn’t mean that it’s easy.
It’s painful; it hurts.
It’s similar to watching
those events unfold with your uncle there
—it’s emotional; it hurts.
Well, what do we do to get through it?
Well, the same thing that Paul did.
Look back and notice there
in chapter 3 and verse 18.
It says that this distressed him
so much that he wept.
But where was his focus?
Look at verse 20:
“But our citizenship exists in the heavens,
and we are eagerly waiting for a savior
from there, the Lord Jesus Christ.”
Yes, he stayed focused
on his hope for the future.
The third thing we’ll discuss
that Paul was dealing with is concerns
about potential divisions
in the congregation.
Notice what he says,
as recorded at Philippians 2:2.
He says: “Make my joy full by being
of the same mind and having the same love,
being completely united,
having the one thought in mind.”
Unity.
Paul was concerned with divisions
cropping up in the congregation.
Unity was the theme
of his letter to the Ephesians,
and it was also featured
in his letter to the Colossians
—all of which were written
around the same time
as the letter to the Philippian congregation.
Why was Paul so concerned about unity?
Well, because highly charged issues
were circulating at that time.
One that wouldn’t go away
was the issue of circumcision.
Some were insisting that everybody
must get circumcised.
Others would say, “No, it’s
a personal choice whether you do or not.”
False teachers were using
this issue to discredit
Paul’s position as an apostle.
Now, the governing body
had made their position
on this subject very clear.
Well, what did Paul do?
Well, he trusted Jehovah
and Jehovah’s representatives,
and he supported the decision.
Well, do we see similar situations today?
Yes, there are many
highly charged issues that exist
that have the potential
of creating divisions in the congregation.
We must never let that happen.
It’s a test of our faith.
Well, what did Paul do?
Well, notice a few verses down in verse 5.
He says: “Keep this mental attitude in you
that was also in Christ Jesus.”
He focused on the Christ—on the big picture.
And see, we need to do the same:
Focus on Jesus;
trust that Christ
is leading this organization;
trust those whom Jehovah and Jesus
trust to take the lead;
keep our focus
on the goal and the big picture.
And when we think about it,
we appreciate so much
all that Jehovah and his organization
have done for us.
And isn’t it true?
We see clearly how the direction
that we’ve received over the years indicates
that Jehovah is clearly with his people,
with his organization,
with the Governing Body
(those who are taking the lead),
and that Christ is firmly in control.
Why would we question
the direction we’re getting now?
Yes, our scripture text
provides very good lessons
to help us navigate
troubling and distressing times.
Philippians 3:14: “I am pressing on toward
the goal for the prize.”
And we need to have
the same attitude whether our prize
is everlasting life
in the heavens or here on earth.
And like when Paul wrote to the Philippians,
there are many things
that can divert our focus today.
And focusing on these troublesome situations
can cause us to become anxious, bitter,
depressed, angry, or distracted.
So may we follow Paul’s example
and keep our eyes
fixed firmly on the big picture
—the goal that is set before us.
May we stay focused
on the incredible privilege that we have
to be a part of this organization
and what Jehovah is doing in these last days,
on the undeniable evidence
that Jehovah is blessing his people
and blessing those who are taking the lead,
and that Christ is firmly in control.
Stay focused on the unfolding
of Bible prophecy
and our beautiful hope
that we have for the future.
And if we do, like Paul,
one day we will not need
to ‘press on any longer to the goal’
because we will be living it.